# How Politics, Funding, Private Organizations, and Intellectual Property Concerns are Impeding Global Collaborative Research Against COVID
In this document, I discuss two articles about cruicial need for genomic sequences to be open data in order to rapidly track and respond to new strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Nature's article discusses reasons why sequence data should be shared globally, while The Washington Post's highlights how behind the US is in sequencing.

## Article 1
In Nature's [Scientists call for fully open sharing of coronavirus genome data](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-00305-7), Rolf Apweiler, co-director of the European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI), and others ask researchers to publish their genomic data in databases without restriction, specifically those belonging to the International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC). This would be extremely beneficial globally as researchers can compare, crosscheck, utilize more data, accelerating research towards vaccines or treatments.

On the other hand, GISAID emphasizes protecting the rights of the scientists who publishes data in their database, which complicates and stagnates accessibility. Their policies seem to ensure that data is distributed to the right people with the right purpose. However, on a greater scale, are rights and credits more important? Obviously, smaller groups of researchers with less funding are worried about larger parties like pharmaceutical companies from using their data without credit. It is naive to believe that everyone will give credit where credit is due, but with the severity of the current situation, there must be some way to allow open distribution while permanently attach some sort of digital signature to data.

## Article 2
In The Washington Post's [Why America is ‘flying blind’ to the coronavirus mutations racing across the globe](https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2021/01/29/genetic-sequencing-mutations-coronavirus/) the author points out the political and monetary factors that impede greater amounts of sequencing. This brings into perspective how the majority of research done is mainly for the potential rewards, whereas research done with other motivations may be impeded by funding or political policies.

Not only that, but when the situation becomes global, it is important for governments to push for greater amounts of data collective, and encourage collaboration internationally. Perhaps organizations like the WHO should be in charge of the organization of such collaboration. However, when science becomes involved with the likes of data privacy, politics, money, it becomes much more complicated. Without a singular organization to regulate these problems or hold countries accountable, it becomes a grey area. Yet should such a organization exist, there would be the issue with the balance of power.